docs: add linter reference page (#5032)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/reference/linters.rst

Linters
=======

A *linter* is an analysis tool that checks for common errors or compatibility
issues, usually automatically, or as part of some other process.

> Snapcraft (from version 7.2 onwards) includes its own linter functionality when
> working with snaps using a ``core22`` or newer :doc:`base</reference/bases>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snapcraft 7.2 and higher provides built-in linter functionality when the snap
uses core22 or higher as its :doc:`base </reference/bases>`.
```

> Snapcraft linters run automatically when a snap is packed unless otherwise
> disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, these built-in linters run automatically when a snap is built. If
they're unneeded, you can disable them in the snap's ``snapcraft.yaml``.
```

> Available linters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Built-in linters
```

-----------------

Snapcraft runs the following linters:

> - `classic`_: verifies binary file parameters for snaps using classic
>   `confinement`_
> 
> - `library`_: verifies that no ELF file dependencies, such as libraries, are
>   missing and that no extra libraries are included in the snap package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `classic`_. Verifies binary file parameters for snaps using
  `classic confinement`_.

- `library`_. Verifies that no ELF file dependencies, such as libraries, are
  missing, and that no extra libraries are included in the snap package.
```

> Disabling linters
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disable a linter
----------------
```

> Snapcraft linters run automatically when a snap is packed but specific linters
> can be disabled by specifying a ``ignore`` entry in the ``lint`` section of
> ``snapcraft.yaml``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable a linter by adding it to the ``lint.ignore`` key in
``snapcraft.yaml``. For example:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   lint:
     ignore:
       - classic
       - library

> The ``ignore`` entry must include one or more [linter names](#heading--linters)
> for those linters to be disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Ignore specific files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To omit specific files from a linter, add their snap location under the linter
> name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable a linter for a specific file, you can list it under a linter's entry
in the ``lint.ignore`` key. The path is relative to the snap directory tree,
and supports wildcard characters (**\***).

In the following example, the ``classic`` linter is disabled entirely, and the
``library`` linter won't run for the files in ``usr/lib`` that match the
specified pattern:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   lint:
     ignore:
       - classic
       - library:
         - usr/lib/**/libfoo.so*

> In the above example, the ``classic`` linter will be disabled entirely, and the
> ``library`` linter will not run for the files matching the specified file
> pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. _classic: https://snapcraft.io/docs/linters-classic

> .. _confinement: https://snapcraft.io/docs/snap-confinement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _classic confinement: https://snapcraft.io/docs/snap-confinement
```
